python oops:

object oriented programming language:
object oriented programming language which uses classes and object for computing.
it's aim to implement real world entity like inheritance,polymorphism,encapsulation and the data abstraction in the programming.
The main concept of oop's is to bind the data and function together to work as a single unit.so that no other part of the code can access this data.

advantages of oop's:
Development and maintance the python code is easier than the procedural language.
can easily slove the real world problem and it doesn't work step by step instructions.
data in python code are secured due to it'sspecial features "data hidding".


principle of oop's:
Class 
Object
Method
Inheritance
Polymorphism
Encapsulation
Data abstraction.


Class:
A class is collection of objects
A class conatins the blueprint for creating the objects
Class is a logical entity and it have some attributes and methods.
EX: class employee:
    employee id=1
    employee age=22
    employee salary....etc
In employee class we have some of the attributes and methods like emp id,age,salary,phone no,email id etc.
Class are created by class "keyword".
Attributes are the variable and that belong to that class.
Attributes are alway public and we can access the variable using the "." or dot operator.


syntax:
class classname:
statement 1
and 
statement 2 

ex:
class employee:
    x=5
p=employee()
print(p.x)

o/p:5


object: object is an entity that has state and behaviour and  identity.
It may be a real world object like pen,chair and mouse,car.
Everything in python is an object and object has the some attributes and methods.

syntax:
object= class name(parameters)
p     = employee("kiran",26)

Ex:
class employee:
    def __init__(s,name,age):
        s.name=name
        s.age=age
p=employee("kiran",26)
print(p.name)
print(p.age)

o/p:
kiran 
26.

Self parameter:
self parameter is a refference of the current instance of a class and it is used to access the variable that belong to that class.

init function:








